I found this short video that describes a hypertext in layman terms. 
https://video.search.yahoo.com/search/video?fr=opensearch&p=what+is+hypertext#id=4&vid=f5ef0f2dd2898ccfd38a7431776e3758&action=click
The readings this week primarily cover the ideas of several visionaries published before the internet and the World Wide Web was implemented.  Their ideas were the new ways information could be archived, organized for retrieval and shared.  Quick Summaries Below to help you when reading……

Article Five….What Hypertext Is
The term hypertext originated by Ted (Theodor) Nelson in 1965. It was used to describe “the forms of hypermedia (human-authored media that branch or perform on request) that operate texturally. (Page2). Refers to “a body of written or pictorial material interconnected in such a complex way that it could not conveniently be presented or represented on paper.” (page2)
 “Hypertext is the interaction with information to build associations, and through associations to build knowledge.” (1)  
Nelson also used the term hypermedia to explain branching or performing presentations that include more than just text, but photos, film

Article One…. As We May Think
	July 1945 in the Atlantic Monthly by Vannevar Bush
During WWII most of the scientific community was involved in using their talents to win the war. It was a time of great cooperation between scientists and much was learned.  The purpose of the article was to convince scientist that a new method of archiving and keeping a record of information needed to be created.  Writing down research in scholarly journals was time consuming and often not even seen by the scientist who needed it to further progress.  The information needed to be organized and retrieved similar to the way the human mind worked.  “It operates by association. With one item in its grasp, it snaps instantly to the next that is suggested by the association of thoughts, in accordance with some intricate web of trials carried by the cells of the brain.”(Bush, 9) Bush was envisioning the invention of a machine…..and describing the computer before it was even invented.  “It is a piece of furniture at which he worked. On the top are slanting translucent screens, on which material can be projected for convenient reading. There is a keyboard, and sets of buttons and levers.  Otherwise it looks like an ordinary desk.” (Bush, 10) Envisioned a creation where documents, research, photos, any media could be stored and accessed by anyone, anytime.  For example, “the lawyer would have at his touch the associated opinions and decisions of his whole experience and the experience of his friends and authorities.”(Bush, page 11)  He would have every case and court decision at his disposal. Information would trail to other information. He was envisioning the Hypertext!  He even took it a step further and envisioned a time when all information would be communicated directly to our brains….by passing the need for a computer. “Is it not possible that someday the path may be established more directly? ….in which information is conveyed to the brain.” (Bush, 12)

Article Two…..Computer Lib/Dream Machines
Computer Lib/Dream Machines was a book written by Ted Nelson in 1974.  He advocated the visionary idea of a computer as a personal device and not a Central Processing machine controlled by large companies like IBM or the government.  He was a rebel and believed “the importance of computers lay not in their capacity for calculation, but in the fact that they would enable new generations of media.” (Page 301) Nelson argued that computer experience were media to be design and the designs were to by user friendly. And the experience should be placed in an open, public network. His ideas inspired the designers of Apple and the creators of many of the apps you use today.  His main point was that EVERYONE should understand computers and it should not be knowledge only available to experts to be hoarded.  Computers should not be cold, welcoming. He envisioned his Hypertext program (I think this was his Xanadu project) organizing information and media in a way similar to the human brain that would promote creativity and intellectual curiosity.  He envisioned computers transforming education.  He was against CAI…Computer Assisted Instruction….where the hypertext branching was involuntary.   Similar to online classes today.  It still makes learning boring.  Instead he envisioned “Letting the student control the sequence, put him in control of interesting and clear material, and make him feel good, interested and autonomous.” (Page313) Read 310-313 for his views on how Hypermedia could change education.  He was bold in suggesting that “students pick what he wishes to study, and when he wishes to be tested.”  He thought this would lead to more motivated students.  It would be better to specialize in an area and be a master at it and motivated, than to be mediocre and bored.  
Page 331… “But Systems can be both powerful and simple at the same time.  The myth that things have to be complicated to do anything for you is pernicious rubbish.  Well-designed systems can make our mental tasks lighter and our achievements come faster” .  This sums up his ideas about the future of computers and programming perfectly.  I thought it relates to you too…especially volleyball.  You learned how the Liberos who are flashy and complicated aren’t always the most effective.  You learned that simplifying your moves and being efficient gets more consistent results.  
 
Works cited: 
Bush, V. (1948). “As we may think.: The Atlantic Monthly, 101-108.
Nelson, T.H. (2003 [1974]). Excerpts from “Computer Lib/Dream Machines.” In N. Wardrip- Fruin and N. Montfort (Eds.), The New Media Reader, pp. 303-338.
Wardrip-Fruin, N. (2004) “What Hyer-text is”zs
